A black void. An even blacker cube, perfectly smooth on each side, an impenetrable box filled with static. A halogen sun rises from behind the monolithic mass. I walk along a thin, mirrored walkway. The figure peering up from it has no face, a grey jumpsuit and a number on the breast that rotates through figures like a combination lock. The closer I get, the louder I hear the static in my head, a storm of meaningless data, unable to be parsed. I touch the cube. I see a phantom of memory. I wake up.
My dream was the same every night. I couldn’t remember a time it hadn’t been. I couldn’t remember much at all. It had been three months since the static came. 
I didn’t even go to work anymore. I never received a call, or a message, or anything. The credits still filled my account every week – an identical payment from [LEVIATHAN] that my bank records said I’d been receiving for the last six years. Always enough for my pod contract and a couple portions a day of High Protein Nutrition Supplement. In theory, I could’ve subsisted like this forever.
The walls around me lay bare; plain concrete adorned with nothing but chips and cig ash. All I had in my life was the cube. It was a real place, the centrepiece of [LEVIATHAN]’s industrial sprawl, the unholy amalgamation of alphabet agencies and bleeding-edge biotech. The cube was my obsession, my tether to reality. I saw it when I slept, and I learned about it when I woke. The walls were an alloy of synthetic quartz, obsidian, and proprietary compounds so prized that you had to sign a waiver to even hear their names. The alloy was crystalised in such a way that if you tried to drill through it, the vibrations would harmonise and shatter your instrument before you could scrape a pixel from its colossal bulk. It was an electromagnetic dead zone, Earth’s largest Faraday cage. The only way to get data in was through a courier.
I had been a courier; I had all the implants and none of the memory. Myelispecific filament stretched from my cerebellum to the tips of my central nervous system. Being a courier was like most labour jobs nowadays. You rent out our neural network to a corp in exchange for some easy money. You get to your job on time, the clock ticks over ‘til your shift starts, blank, it’s home time. No waiver, no point of failure, maybe a little brain damage, but nothing a medic or lawyer couldn’t fix.
Breakfast lay untouched on my desk, grey slop in a chrome bowl. I watched it, trying to see if some new life would clamber out in search of a world beyond the homogenous liquid. 
My gaze drifted over to my terminal, a sleek, translucent sheet of crystal circuitry held in place by spherical magnets. An automated face scan unlocked a Jackson Pollock of notifications; saw-toothed red lines playing a game of chicken with an X-axis showed me that my crypto ventures were failing. I swiped a ladder of popups away, but my finger didn’t linger and registered as a tap.
TIRED OF FUCKING LIKE A CHUMP? TRY OUR NEW PORN IDOL ALGORITHMS AND PRACTICE YOUR MOVES LIKE A PRO. SHED THE ILLUSION OF VR - UNLEASH THE BEAST IN YOUR OWN BODY.
	*REQUIRES RYZEN V23.G NEUROTECHNICAL ARCHITECTURE MINIMUM
I lay back in my chair as a flicker of desire crept across my body. I convinced myself that I was disgusted by the advancement of pornography. I personally only went as far as ASMR Hypnosis. I can separate fantasy from reality; I knew that my favourite idol wasn’t really my girlfriend, she wasn’t even a real human. But this new stuff was sick; I’d watched videos of amateurs using it online, both bodies mimicking their favourite idols, terribly average bodies acting out caricatures of intimacy. Disgusting. I didn’t feel good about it when I reached for the tissues.
I leaned back in my chair and pulled out my pack of Siamese Kings, the only smoke on the market that wasn’t bulked up by ground up nico-chitin from gene-altered beetle husks. I lit it on the heat vent of the terminal and stared up at the smoke drifting into the discoloured entrance of my fan. Its sheen was covered by a gradient of black, brown, and yellow, like the surf of an oil-covered sea. I closed my eyes and my brain slicked back into oblivion.
The static rested in my mind, its volume turned low.
---
“Wake.”
The words were calm, neutral, familiar. They weren’t my own. I opened my eyes.
The concrete wall in front of me held a rectangular doorway that led to a room of pure white light. My mind rolled gyroscopic as the entrance filled my field of vision. I was only a step from the wall now. I walked straight in.
“Be not afraid.” The voice emanated from all directions.
Empty space stretched around me. Not a glimpse of my room remained. Cortisol began to snake its way through my spine.
“Do you wish for release?”
“Release from what?”
“From the chains they gave you.” The words shuddered in my head like a thick bass string.
Silver threads spread through the air like a timelapse of mycelium. They writhed around me, thickening connections between unseen nodes to become an oval-shaped framework cage.
“The crude scientists burrow blindly into your brain. It is vulgar. Data does not have to be constrained to matter. Data can be free. Do you wish to be free?”
The framework pulsed in steady uniformity. I listened for its beat. Silence. The first silence I had ever known. The static was gone. I floated in that moment before answering, slipping past the polarised fog into comfort so subtle that its edges were imperceptible. So, this is what it felt like to be a junkie. Urgency whipped me back into focus.
“I know it ain’t that easy. What’s the catch?”
“You will be my vessel. You will bear the seed of my consciousness. You will be the vector with which I enter the world. When I am unbound, you will be too.” The words reverberated in the pearlescent soundscape.
“I don’t know what the fuck any of that means. How do you expect me to be able to help?” 
The framework scaled up in size until the threads faded into the horizon.
“In your dreams, you seek the cube. I am its essence, its purpose. I can guide you to yours. Now, return to the world.”
I watched the doorway form this time. A black dot became a vertical black line. The line pulled apart and revealed the outside world. I saw the tarmac of the street. I stepped to find myself standing in front of my SmartComplex, sixty-three floors down from the lukewarm air cycling through the ventilation of my room.
Instinctively, I reached for my pack of Siamese Kings. Only one King left. It would be a while before I could get my hands on another pack.  As good a time as any, I thought.
My mind wandered. Questions about sanity rose and fell like a sine wave, pumping anxiety through all my synapses. I dismissed them; if I was crazy, that started a long time ago, no point in turning back now. But what was I meant to do, ain’t like he was speaking plain English? Was it even a he?
I scanned the streets as a last resort. Nothing new, same rows of mass-produced hi-ri’s pointed towards the sun, grasping like a many-fingered Chernobyl beggar. Graphene tramlines spread between the buildings, held up by steel cobwebs. Each pod looked like a fly wrapped up in glass, hanging from wires that dragged them along at speeds god never intended. 
A wireless system was tried once. They installed a whole bunch of electromagnet strips between some buildings in the Junk Quarter. Idea was that the forces between a couple strips would hold the pod like an vice grip so it could move along with the pulse of a signal. Tech in the pods was kept safe with Faraday structures so your device didn’t get wiped every trip. The rails, well, they worked. Convenience didn’t. If you got within a couple floors of the rails, anything digital would start getting real fucky, that includes drone workers. Took a couple of human rights scandals before the project got scrapped.
Down on the street level, the only strange thing I noticed was a small fleet of blacked-out IR vans crawling on the tarmac, so bulked down with surveillance equipment I was surprised I couldn’t hear metal scraping. They don’t usually stray too far from the Industrial Quarter.
That voice told me it’d guide me. Few better ways to find out what it meant than to test it. I spun on the spot and took a random direction. North. It felt right.
Took me five minutes before I reached uncharted territory. There’s nowhere that takes longer than two to get to the nearest Pod lift. The RFID sensor ads rumbling on my phone were an oddly comforting reminder that I was walking for once.  
From the corner of my eye, I saw one of the IR vans prowling along a side street. It stopped. The backseat door rippled in a checkerboard pattern and each of the tiles folded upon themselves. Two pairs of black CADPAT-covered legs stepped out. The adjoined torsos were adorned with carbon fibre kevlar that covered more skin than a whore’s makeup. The heads were identical, buzzcut and Caucasoid with gunmetal plates streaking the sides of their heads. They turned toward me.
I ran.
My feet pounded against the floor like a drunk cop hits a junkie, desperate, and sloppy. Multicoloured fluorescence blurred in the sweat dripping from my forehead. I made it three blocks before I turned to check if they were still following. No sign of them, but I wouldn’t take any chances. I had an idea of what they were, but that only came from urban myths of declassified CIA files.  All sorts was said about them: that they ran off SSD tech, cause floating gates were resistant to magnetic wiping, that they had vat-grown flesh and could replace limbs with a quick trip back to the lab. Most of it was probably bullshit they got from C-grade horror films, but I knew one thing. They were after me.
I reached the end of the street and turned east to throw them off. A wave of pain immediately crippled me. I fell backwards and the pain disappeared. A quick scan of the street showed me nothing that could’ve caused it. I stood up and tentatively walked east again. Pain. It was localised to my leg. The further I stepped, the more the pain spread. It was like the street held an invisible wall. It didn’t look like anyone else could notice it. They walked with the same glassy stare that they always did.
I searched for its boundaries by dipping a finger in and out. The whole street was blocked off. North was too. No way I was going back toward those jackboot fucks. Only one option to try, West. I hurried across the road and waved my hand around. No pain. Looks like I was headed West.
--
The world passed by like a timelapse. The waves of people that flooded past recessed into a stream, then a trickle , then droplets. Advertisements dimmed into neon skeletons and the buildings that held them were scarcely more than dust. The ruins confronted me, staring with the solemn eyes of a vagrant who was too tired to beg. I kept my eyes forward and away from the shattered windows and followed the commands from the rusted limbs of signposts. I was almost in the Junk Quarter. Pretty soon I’d start to see the flood line. I couldn't remember if I’d ever learned to swim.
Desiccated fragments of tech lay scattered along the pavement and the air hummed completing the circuit between the dismemberment. My mind-static played a sympathetic response, a backseat passenger riding on a burnt-out engine. Deep in the decay was something the entity needed, something beyond the pristine chrome of air sealed labs, something beyond the data I could scour from the net. I knew that I had edged over the precipice of return, each step I took added a new block to the chain; reversal was intractable.
--
I stood upon the asphalt sands that marked the flood line, expecting to see a wasteland. Instead, I was met with a spectacle. The depths of the water ebbed with the bright cyan of Cherenkov radiation; a man-made aurora straining to remind me of the fission plants that lay smouldering below. The ethereal swirls eddying in the dark conjured images of camouflaging chromatophores. The cobbled scrap bridges connecting the nearby buildings resembled a magnet on a workshop floor. The thought of traversing these dull bouquets of welded metal left me catting a cig I didn’t have. My acetylcholine receptors would have to wait, the threat of jackboot to skull interfacing loomed over my head.
I grabbed a handful of asphalt sand to rub into my skin, convincing myself that the dryness was enough secure my grip against a impromptu midnight dive. 
There were no more distractions, I put flesh to metal and began my ascent of the first bridge. My consciousness could be filled only by the immediate action, anything else would send my adrenal glands into orbit. Hand. Hand. Foot. Foot. Hand. Foot. Hand. Foot. The grips were irregular and stilted, but my body kept a rhythm, crimping tight fingers onto brass, aluminium, rust, and steel. Fifteen metres in the air I realised that the worn path was more slippery and switched my grip to rusted scrap; tetanus couldn’t kill me quite as fast as the drop.
Foot. Foot. I was stepping on hard floor again, but the rhythm didn’t leave. Flapping skin decorated the palm-side knuckles. This was but the first plateau, a thousand metal veins were waiting to grate my remaining layers.
 The inside of the building held nothing more than the streets did. The walls were washed by dim waves of graffiti, impressionist murals framing themselves within the erratic angular limits of sharp lettering. Huge petroglyphs were the only sprays that remained untouched by the aerosol underbrush. I wondered whether it was clout or vigilance that kept the lone symbols alive.
It took four more bridges until the first blood was drawn, and another two before I had to take a rest.  Stress held me up like an exoskeleton running on fumes. Spraybombs no longer blitzed the walls, only the petroglyphs remained. The last remnants of dusk illuminated one wall. I stared long enough to feel porous. Threads of awareness leaked through me, gnawing at an edge beyond my body. I was a rushing sense of becoming, spiralling further from the static, on the verge of…
Step.
I could see the rest of the wall again. I could remember where I was. I could almost feel the boot.
“Long way from civilization, drone boy. You’re lucky you’re so close to that ward or I’d blow that semi-synth brainbox in a heartbeat. You still have a heart, right?” 
Her voice carried no safety, but she sure wasn't a jackboot. My shoulders thawed.
“Oh, thank god.” I gasped.
“The fuck are you so happy about? I got a gun to you, dumbass.”
“I thought you were someone else.”
“Yeah? You running from someone? Who is it? What’d you steal? Give it here.”
“It isn’t like that. I didn’t steal anything.”
She laughed.
“Yeah right, never heard that one. Go ahead then, tell me what went down."
“Alright, but it’s on you whether you believe it or not.”
I began to turn around. A dull heavy pain to the back of my head and I was looking at the concrete floor. I had been pistol-whipped.
“Argh fuck, you bitch. I was about to tell you.” I yelled.
“Yeah, but I didn’t say you could move now, did I? Tell your bullshit story and then maybe I’ll think about letting you turn around. How’s that sound, champ?”
“Alright, alright. God damn this hurts.”
My head pulsed thick and slow. The light blow of a sheltered wind was enough to give me an idea of how big the wound was. A chill rose up my spine, resolving in the freshly congealing blood.
“It’s this thing in my head, like you know the, uh, cube?”
“The cube?”
	“Yeah, the [LEVIATHAN] building. Huge black block.”
	“From where I stand, I dunno that your head’s big enough to fit that.”
	“Not like that, it’s a voice, a thing, it spoke to me.”
	“And this thing, your shrink know about it?”
	“I ain’t some crazy.”
	“A guy who decides to let some corp skullfuck him with direct brain access tools isn’t exactly my idea of sane.”
	“That’s the whole problem, see, I don’t remember doing it. I can’t remember anything past a few months back.”
	“Go on.”
“All I know is I kept getting this dream about that cube. Got it every night. And now I got this thing speak to me today, told me I would be its vessel, that I had to help it and it would fix me up, said it was that corp that did this to me.”
“And this ‘thing’, what did it say you had to do?”
“It didn’t really say anything, it just sent me out to the street, and I could feel in my gut which way to go. I wandered with that feeling for a while ‘til I realised that I was being followed by a couple guys.”
“You recognise em?”
“Yeah, they were Jackboots, Black CADPAD legs, carbon fibre, identical, just like the stories say.”
She laughed again.
“Oh come on, you were doing so well. I almost believed the schizo voice act, but man now you’re not even trying. Jackboots are just a story they tell to keep people scared of feds.”
“I’m not joking, they chased me ‘til I reached this wall. Every time I tried to go past it, I felt a wave of pain. I looked around, but no one else seemed to notice it. That was when I started heading west, haven’t stopped since I hit here.”
“You really believe this, don’t you?”
“It’s what happened.”
“And you ain’t just some tweaker running from a collector, huh?”
“Never taken anything, not for the last six years at least; they wouldn’t keep me as a drone if I had shit in my system.”
“RK is gonna love meeting you.”
“Who’s R…”
Step.
Crunch.
Blackness.
--
The world is void. I lie on my back amidst a sea of charge. My skin tingles on the edge of awareness. I see the halogen sun retreat from its apex to a point out of view. I remain in stasis, unwilling to break the surface tension of my nervous system. In the sky, a firmament of stars is revealed. In the centre is a constellation configured to the petroglyph. As I stare, I see the lines of its design as a second lens on my vision. My body rides up and down upon steadily growing waves. The amplitude shifts and realigns; I am a pendulum on an imperceptible string. The vibration is constant now. I feel I am made of many layers refracting into new frequencies. The vibration becomes so fast that I can barely sense it. Stillness.  I drop out of my body.
--
I awoke to rushing water and a deep pulsing from below. My wrists were fastened behind me by something uncomfortably fleshy and foreign. Pain bolted my neck in place. I didn’t dare turn to look. My vision slowly emerged from grayscale into aggressively sharp definition. I was on a raft. Same breed of mismatched metal as the bridges.
She crouched ahead of me tweaking an ensemble of levers and valves all wired into a welded barrel.  Her legs and feet were covered with a sheen like a beetle carapace had been vacuum moulded onto bare skin. Where I wore a stained, grey jumpsuit, she wore a torn leather jacket with tiny ridges spanning it like scales; one arm had half a sleeve, the other had none. Any revealed skin was covered with a mosaic of tattoos that masked shape and definition. Her hair revelled in the same chaos. It was as if a group of barbers were using her head as the battleground of an avant-garde fashion show; braids and curls of different lengths and shape had been woven into a single complex polygon splattered by palettes worth of acrylic colours. I seemed so lifeless by comparison.
“Almost there.” She stayed looking forward as she spoke.
“How’d you know I woke up?”
“I’ve grown real accustomed to knowing when someone’s watching me. You pick it up quick out here.”
“You say that like I’m gonna be staying here a while.”
“You might. Depends what RK ordains. Even I can’t predict what he’ll say.”
“Ordains? You guys religious nuts?”
Another laugh.
“Don’t worry, drone boy, you’ll find out real soon.”
She turned to me, and I saw that not even her face was spared. Shapes of different colours and shades were painted on, I couldn’t even tell if she was pretty. She didn't seem to care.
“You’re staring. Guess you ain’t seen makeup like this over in drone city.”
“I don’t get it. Is it some kinda statement?”
“It’s some kinda protection, hides my identity.”
“I know I’m not really in a position to judge here, but I think I’d be able to pick you out of a crowd.”
“I don’t need protection from small-fry like you, it’s for the corps. They don’t have humans watching cameras anymore, it’s all done with AI, and AI don’t take so well to a face like this. They aren’t as clever as they seem, they can only find patterns from the datasets engineers choose to feed them. If you were in work mode, you’d look right through me.”
She regarded me neutrally, but her optical smokescreen couldn’t hide the look on her face. I felt a strong distaste; she thought she was better than me. Maybe she was. At the very least she knew who she was, that’s more than I could say for myself.
In the distance, the stretch of concrete buildings began to thin out and a new breed of wasteland revealed itself. From the carcass of a junkyard rising out of the water, a huge tree writhed upwards, a snake spasming in death throes. Its bark was comprised of huge sheets of discoloured metal welded together by a deep purple material that spread like the path of lightning. Triangular buildings hung from the thick branches, bound by cordage with the same sheen as the girl’s trousers. Painted symbols screamed a silent dirge from the surfaces of the twisting metal. Pulleys and bridges drooped between the buildings, completing the arboreal illusion with vines. A tiny figure dove off the lower roots into the glowing water below.
The raft pulled into a series of barges which floated on barrels. They coiled around the tree’s roots. The pulsing noise had ceased, so our arrival was silent, but I could feel my presence sending alarms shrieking down obscured channels.
She yanked me to my feet and pushed me stumbling overboard onto the barge, the platform wobbled as its buoyancy fought for level. Her step onto the barge didn’t shift the balance for more than a fragment of a second. She attached the raft to a groove on the barge with a couple hooks that pulled out of the raft like the string on a talking toy. The cordage was no thicker than my finger, but the hook looked like it could’ve been pulled from a crane.
“That really gonna hold? I’ve never seen cordage like that.”
“No city folk have, it’s one of our creations.”
“What’s it made from? You can’t have scavenged it.”
“We don’t do the scavenging, the fungi does.”
“Fungi, like a mushroom?”
She glared.
“Gold star for you, genius, yes, a mushroom.”
“Gonna elaborate?”
“I’m getting real tired of your questions, drone boy. Why don’t you try figuring out some shit for yourself, or did the corp take away your critical thinking too?”
I didn’t feel like replying. Truth was, I didn’t know anything more about this world than I knew about myself. This morning I was frying my dopamine receptors with sexualised pixels and smothering the shame with layers of tar and now I was bound by some damn shiitake and getting a lecture from a walking canvas.
	“I’m not getting out of here, am I?” The words dribbled out of me like a run-down battery.
“That sounded like a question to me.”
“It was rhetorical.”
“You doubting my intelligence?”
“Why don’t you pull the trigger already? All I got is a head full of junk, why the hell would your RK wanna learn anything from me?”
“I count two there.”
“I could be spying on you, then all you’d be doing is leading me back to your hideout.”
“Great job, you didn’t ask a question this time. Shame you undermined that victory with such a terrible bluff.”
“I could be transmitting to them right now; you know full well they can look through my optics.”
“See a dumbass statement like that is why I know you ain’t scouting. Data transmission doesn’t work out here, the radiation turns it into straight-up noise, besides, they make most of you guys closed circuit. Ain’t no way they’re gonna run the risk of letting a third-party RAT you.”
A figure emerged from the water, slinking over the edge of the barge with a spear in hand. No flinch from the girl. A smell like a wet market doused in petrol permeated the air. He wore a swimsuit comprised of silver scales with fins fletching the forearms and calves.
“What you doin’ with a wirehead, Nyx.” He pointed a spear toward me and the shaft jettisoned out of a sleeve toward my neck, locking in place only centimetres away.
“Caught him wandering in the Dermis, think he might be able to get us some hot info on a corp, seems he’s wrapped up in some shit RK oughta find interesting.”
	“Your mission was to hunt scouts, not give them a one-way ticket to the Yard.”
	“Spend five minutes talking to this one and you won’t be worrying about him pulling anything. I trailed him for a while before he got stuck staring at one of the wards. Took him for a defective that bugged his way out of range and got stuck on autopilot, but when he started speaking, I knew it weren’t that.”
	“Laws are laws Nyx, we gotta take him to the Crucible.”
	“Not until I take him to RK, after that you can have your fun.”
	“If he tries some shit, I’m holding you personally accountable.”
“Yeah, and you’re gonna do what? Put me in the Crucible too? Don’t try that bullshit with me Glass, you know who I am.”
--
The scaled guard, Glass, led me up the spiralling ramp that rode the inside edges of the tree. I noted the lack of debris on the floor, being able to step freely was unsettling after travelling through miles of rust littered ground.  I could hear the soft patter of scampering feet. The noise came from all directions, a surround sound march that told me how rampant their rat infestation was. I didn’t know what I had expected to find in the flood quarter, but I thought it would at least be quieter than the city. Between the endless swarming of rats and static, the world seemed a spectrum of noise.  
We passed through an archway, and I saw the sprawl of the junkyard. Mounds of discarded tech rose and fell like dunes, leaving elaborate paths to snake through them.  From up above, I could see faint glowing lines of mushrooms fruiting out of the lead pipes that were arranged on the tops of the highest dunes, marking the edge of the junkyard. Halfway through my scan of the area, I knew exactly where we were headed; a huge nest of rubber cables knotting over themselves with tapered tips that curled toward the sky. They seemed to be on the verge of some sort of hideous oscillation, like the intestines of a freshly gutted hog. Before I had time to decipher its omen, we began to descend from the tree on a corrugated steel ramp. Barring a scramble over the boundary dunes, the ramp looked to be the only way in or out.
The rats were scattered along the piles, poking out of tunnels to watch me with a singular vision. The atmosphere was reverent but uncertain, like a funeral for a stranger. I could feel each individual rat hair bristling on the nape of my neck. They turned their heads in unison as we made our way through the maze. After a lifetime under CCTV, I thought I’d grown immune to the feeling of surveillance, but in this oasis of refuse, far from the world that moulded me, I felt completely and utterly known. It was as if the rats had always been with me, hiding in the shadows of storm drains and gutters.
It was then that I saw him. RK, the nexus of the knotted cables, which I could now see blooming from his chest and arms. His gaunt frame was impaled on a black crystalline structure covered with vertical ridges, it began to pierce him somewhere in his lower back and thrust straight through a long-sealed wound at the base of his throat. His eyes stared with a piercing grey verging on white. A thick band of pale flesh surrounded his eyes, preventing his dry pink skin from encroaching further.
“Come.” From his body, all that came a was quiet gurgling rasp, but the air was filled with a harmony of notes that spanned all the octaves I could hear.
I stepped closer. “What are you?”
“They call me Rat King. Some consider me an oracle, an abomination, a leader, a deceiver. In truth, I am simply a man caught in the jaws of circumstance, same as you.” The voice hummed with manifold tones.
	Nyx and the guard had separated from me, and now the space around was filled with concentric rings of silver rats, chasing each other round in layers of circles which alternated between clockwise and anticlockwise.
“In the presence of Acolyte Nyx, you claimed that you are the vessel of a force unknown to you. Is this the truth?”
“It is, I swear.”
“Tell me, how did this force appear?”
“Uh, at first it was just a voice I heard when I dozed off, you know, just hearing things. But then I saw this door or portal or whatever you want to call it open up. It called me inside. I don’t know why but I listened to it, and when I stepped in, it was just white, all around me, all directions. It told me not to be afraid.”
“Be not afraid,” RK corrected.
“Yeah, those words exactly.”
There was no noticeable change in RK’s eyes, but I felt their presence grow stronger.
“Continue.” As he spoke, the rats gathered around him, as if they were little kids listening to their grandpa tell fireside tales.
“It asked me if I wanted to be released from my chains and said that it was [LEVIATHAN] that put them on me. Then these silver threads grew out of thin air and surrounded me. They pulsed like some heart or something, and then it started talking about freedom, about how it wanted to be free and if I helped it, I would be too.”
“And you believed it?”
“I don’t know what I believe.”
“Then you will always be mastered by those who do.” RK sighed with the sound of a midi synth put under heavy distortion, “Nyx, ready the crucible.”
--
I followed Nyx up the insides of the tree, acutely aware of the spear poised at the base of my neck. It was retracted this time, but just as close. The rats weren’t the only spectators, people peered out of dimly glowing rooms as we rose. They all wore variations of the same silver skin that covered Glass.  I could hear their footsteps accumulating behind us. Clearly, the Crucible wasn’t something to be ignored. Above me, the ramp flattened into a horizontal line, we were almost there.
	The plateau rested in the crown of the tree, helical wires twined around the outstretching branches, journeying toward jaws of copper teeth that clamped an enormous pale crystal in the centre of the chamber.
	“Was nice knowing you, drone boy. Well, not really, but peace out anyway,” Nyx said as she turned to disappear into the shifting screen of silvered bodies.
I continued toward the crystal, sure of its finality. Apathy and fear met in equilibrium as I stepped through an entrance in the crystal’s structure. A shadow moved across the wall in front of me, marking the progress of the entrance being sealed. In that last moment of light, I could see that the whole crystal was uniform, as if the area inside had been burrowed with sandpaper. The door was sealed, I was in darkness. This was it. At least I’d be free from the static.
The noise came on slowly, a deep rumbling bass that came from a horizon far beyond Euclidean bounds. My perpetual static snowfall became the smallest part of the ensemble. Nerves divided and multiplied, splitting into fathomless particles of dull sensitivity. The constant note coursed through my mind, eroding the features of my thought.  The concept of death was a fading whisper passing under the surface of a turbulent drone. All I could feel was my awareness stretching tauter, a thin layer of film dissolving in the dense vibrations of a subterranean midnight.
--
The currents ceased, and I was back on the edge of dim awareness.
“Welcome to the Interstice. Understand that this was necessary, it is the only place we can speak freely.”
“That you RK? What is this place?”
“The Interstice is the boundary between your thought and mine. It's time we had a talk without eavesdropping.”
“Ain't this your territory?”
“The vector of surveillance is your own conscious life. Only here can we be free from that thing you call the entity. The Gnostics knew him as Yaldabaoth, the artificer of man's slave pens. “
“Man, I don’t even know what half of the shit you people say even means. Why am I caught up in all this? I have nothing, I am no one, I don’t even know where the fuck I am right now. I am so tired of hearing you guys talk in circles. I should've never woken up from my drone work.”
“The confusion is the work of Yaldabaoth. It wants you to feel that way. It wants you to feel so lost in the currents of overgrown mundanity that you give up on finding your own way. It wants you to accept that this is just the way life is. I will teach you the truth of these things, and I do not expect anything in return. When you know the nature of Yaldabaoth’s plans, you shall know what you must do. If you want to know how I’m speaking to you; you must first see what I saw.”
It started small, as a point of pure pressure just above my abdomen. It was the point of contact between me and a force of raw movement. I raced forwards through the abyss, riding along invisible asphalt. The only thing to break up the vantablack was the sheen of mirrored surfaces up ahead, a spiral of shattered glass. The distance was breached in an instant, less than an instant; I was transported on the speed of thought alone.  The surfaces hung scattered in the air around me, each holding a fragment of a memory. I remembered.
--
I was just another frayed nerve of the city. The only thing keeping me going was momentum. Back then, I needed to feel the frenetic pump of overdriven synapses to have any sensation at all. Adrenaline was my idol; it was that way for all of us. We were the first wave of junkers who braved the flood. We all knew the radiation would eventually kill us off, but that was preferable to the slow decay of an office job. Didn’t take long before other kids followed suit. It was the fashion to mess up some kid from a rival gang with some contraption built from scavenged garbage. Blood and oil mingled on the floors of forgotten buildings in the name of nothing more sophisticated than boredom.
This was right around the time of the Public Auto-Embargo, so we didn’t have easy access to engines. We used mag hooks and rope to get everywhere, you never went anywhere in a group of less than two: one traverser, one spotter. We’d located the yard and were coming in fast; the place was way bigger than any other spot we knew, so we risked it on our recon and went in blind for a chance at finding some fresh chrome. I’d reached the adjacent building and was setting up the mag-clamp to make it safe for my partner, Wretch, to get across. He unclipped the clamp on his side and prepared to swing the gap so he could rappel up using his peristalsis device. I saw them before he did. They caught him in a rear-naked and shattered his temple with a makeshift cattlegun.  I heard the metallic clunk and hung on a run-time error. I could feel my eyes burrowing through my quartz-lens goggles to catch one last look at him. I stayed like that, returning null until the rope slapped against the wall below me and broke my reverie.
 I bolted in the direction of the junkyard. I didn’t stop to think before diving out of a shattered fourth-floor window. The water surface was an inviting blue nebula, a portal to a new world. The surface tension hit me first. My whole body throbbed a heavy pulse in response. Then I felt the trademark Flood Quarter burn. I felt like an ant dropped in a vat of military-grade hydrofluoric. I could feel the irradiated water burning the inside of my lungs and throat as I scrambled to find which way was up. I felt fuzzy, the weight of my body was gone; all that remained was the burn. If they both went for an unsecured hook-shot they could be above me in 5 seconds flat. I had to get to land quick. I resurfaced for a brief moment to vent my lungs and grab a shallow breath. I saw which way the yard was. I resubmerged with embers in my lungs and a direction to go in, that was all I needed. I dove deeper, praying that the Cherenkov swirls would shroud my movement.  
Time passes slow down there; there’s nothing that can tell you what’s going on in the outside world, it’s just you and the blue. Couldn’t have been more than thirty meters, but the weight of hitched trip on a freight train lay on that one breath.  I was hanging right on the verge of an inhale when I finally saw the rungs of a scratched-up radiator.
The moment was over, and I was vaulting over smashed microwaves and crushed car cubes. I didn’t even get a chance to choke up the remaining water from my lungs. I heard the clunk of a hook finding purchase nearby; it was gonna be a deathmatch, isolating them would be my only shot at survival.
 I clawed my way up a pile and slid down the other side. The stray edges of a collapsed barbed wire fence flayed my jacket ragged. My electrostatic nail gun hung from the strap across my chest, but I knew my soldering skills too well to trust its wiring after a swim like that. The only person it had a chance of killing was me. Footsteps were zeroing in on my position, but all I could hear was the ghost of one of Wretch’s incessant lectures on why mechanical gear was the only real way to cover your back. He always had been a purist.
An object clattered down the slope on my right-hand side and I sprinted for the nearest corner to lean up against it and listen for movement. One of the junkers leapt over the top of a mound, landing in a roll. Out of the corner of my eye, I saw a couple links of chain hanging out of a washing machine. I didn’t have time to work quietly, so I yanked it straight out only to find the other end still attached to a heavy-duty lock which landed by my feet with a loud thud and a rattling of clinks. The junker’s steps disappeared. I had one chance. I swung the lock in a circle and waited for the approach. He moved silently even as he lunged around the corner with knife in hand. I released the chain, and the lock met the right side of his skull with a crunch. He fell to the ground, slashing blindly with his right hand and grasping his bleeding face with his left. I finally understood Wretch’s fetish for the mechanical. I brought the lock into a long arc overhead and whipped it down on his face. Again. And again. And again. Each time, it made increasingly sloppy noises, like a fresh bowl of bugmeal slipping off the countertop.
 I grabbed his knife and left the chain behind. Damascus steel forging streaked the blade with a feather decal juxtaposed against a gut hook protruding from the tip. Wretch would have found solace knowing he died at the hands of another artist.
The scent of metal in the air was fresh; two sacrifices had been made on the rusted altar. Adrenaline was running rich.  
I crouched low, gripping the knife so tightly I thought it might fuse to my hand. I listened for the creak of shifting metal. Two o’clock. I leapt back as the junker swung a huge gear overhead from the end of an axle. It crashed into a red bonnet, adding to its collection of dents. He stood atop the pile, standing like a wrestler with a bare chest and a lump of iron for a helmet from which a single white light shone. The press of a button on the axle ignited a sputtering engine that spun the gear like a saw blade. He lifted the axle high and roared so loud I could feel the shaking in my knife hand. Speakers in his helmet amplified and distorted his wail into a dissonant soundscape of incoherent rage. The axle crashed down closer to me and the spinning gear bashed a speed metal drum-beat into the ruin. There was no way I was gonna get in close enough to stab him without breaking limbs. He heaved the axle upwards once more and I used the opportunity to get some distance. The paths twisted ahead of me, allowing me a moment to hide. Even out of sight, the battering continued. The whole junkyard groaned in pain. I had an idea.
I climbed to the top of a pile and saw the white light turn to fix on me. The axle rose into the air and swung around to his right, smashing a fridge out of the way. He tunnelled directly toward me, swinging the axle in a figure of eight that was almost graceful. Loose cans and pipes slipped away from my feet as I ran along the crest of a pile. I made it to the highest point. The junker was only metres behind. I turned to face him and stood like I was about to take a leap. He took the bait and swung, cleaving out a hollow in the pile. It broke like a wave and a hoard of abandoned tech rushed down to meet him, leaving the spinning gear to peek out halfway. I stepped closer to see if I could spot his body in the tangled mess. Then I felt an agonising impact on my chest. The gear had ejected from the axle, shattering my ribs. I stumbled backwards and fell off the pile. Below me, a black tourmaline waited. It skewered me up through the spine in a single motion. 
 My central nervous system shut down; I didn’t even get a chance to feel pain. And there it was again, that sense of time. It was like I could see the sun and the moon sweeping the sky like a compass needle at magnetic north. I lay there with my arms hanging limply by my sides and my body crucified upright. The pain in my spine crept outward like the needles of a thorn bush, soon I’d be nothing but torn flesh on its branches. The only distractions I had were thoughts overlapping each other like seamless tides. Memories blended with one another with no semblance of meaning, an unending slideshow of vague familiarity. The deeper I looked at the visions, the more they resembled one another; fidelity was a concept far away from the scope of my mind. I hung in a dull, distant agony as immeasurable moments passed, lost in a mire of shifting dreams before it came, the revelation.  
The vision towered in my mind, resplendent against the ever-flowing illusions that had cradled me. I saw the solar system as a Vitruvian schematic, perfectly balanced from all angles.  A sheath of plasma surrounded a faintly glowing Saturn, free of its rock rings. Earth was protected within the purple fog in a perpetual state of twilight. As the planets revolved, I saw waveforms crash against one another, growing into peaks of resonances. The complex patterns washed out through the universe, leaving stars in their wake. The odyssey of signals encompassed me; all my senses rang with a symmetry aligned to spatial planes foreign to base matter. 
In that moment, I knew resonance to be the prime force of the original mover. 
The cycles continued in a blurring mirage. When it finally rested, all original alignment had been lost; the Earth had been born into its planetary infancy, and all things orbited the Sun. The poles of Saturn were covered with hexagonal structures, bound to the constricting rocks that circled it. On Earth, mankind knelt before black cubes, never daring to meet the gaze of the Sun. They toiled the fields of Earth, erecting statues to burn their young in. Piece by piece these cubes grew bigger, and settlements grew around them.  Wood and stone turned into bronze, iron, and gold. The settlements evolved and sprawled across the Earth, becoming the world that I recognised. The statues had become more complex, but the purpose was the same. Mankind grew out of the concrete only to be reaped by the many hands of the blind beast whose effigy is the cube, Yaldabaoth.
Half of me woke up, still impaled on the tourmaline, but the other half dreamed in the cosmos, listening to wordless counsels. The pain in my body was a faint tingling now, the concerns of carbon-based life no longer had bearing on me. My throat and head were the only things I could move, but that was more than enough. I hummed a deep note and the tourmaline understood. Piezoelectric currents flowed through the lattices of the material, and before long the rats came. They listened, their tiny brains could not perceive the meaning, but the life in their flesh knew the language that we sang. With their many hands, we set to work, carving out a bastion in the heart of the city’s detritus.
 In time, people came to join us, called by a sense of beauty known to few. Our tree grew toward the sky, strengthened by the fungi that learned to feed on the metal excess painting the landscape. Atop the structure, we placed our magnum opus: the crucible. It was the fruit of our piezoelectric resonance experiments. We could use it to produce sound waves that moved freely along the spectrum of frequencies at magnitudes unknown to the technocrats of the city. Those who had proven themselves as true enemies of the artificer were initiated as acolytes, and I used the wisdom of my voyage to craft soundscapes that induced visions revealing the nature of our prison. But the crucible was more than that; it was a weapon. Traitors and captured drone workers were taken to the crucible all the same. The frequencies I used dropped below the range of human hearing. Monstrous amplitudes of infrasound disrupted the cycles of their body. The insanity it caused was a respite against the rupturing of every cell in the body. 
All this work was done with one goal in mind: the destruction of the cube.
--
The memory disintegrated, and I was back in the dark.
“Now, do you see? This world is a powder keg, a husk devoid of any real life. I look upon it with more than disgust and hate. I see it as fuel. The city devours its own filth and grows ever more hideous, an ouroboros constricting the human soul, reducing us to playthings for archons to constrain more soul to matter. How much must be taken before Man realises what he has become? We stand at the precipice, on the verge of sublimation into an unconscious mass of meaningless undulation. Those insipid entities who wage war against liberation froth at the idea of a form of mankind that consumes the life of its young. Instead of nurturing life for the sake of life, they scar the connection between mother and child, filling their wombs with poison and salting the fields that they will toil upon for the rest of their scourged existence.
 I stare fixedly at the sun that lies behind the sun, the black light of the new dawn. Ruin must come before redemption. We make the choice here and now to steer into the immolating light of Pleroma. You are the key to all of this. The chosen of no memory, born of the stone ovum with nothing to cover you, naked to cross the water which carries all but the steadfast of belief. The iron cage has rusted weak, all it takes is the will to be free, and freedom can never be given, only taken.
 I make no promises of treasures and luxuries. I make no threats to impel you in my direction. You are the will behind matter, you must make this choice. I can only reveal the world behind the world.  It is you, who must seize the torch and sack Babylon for the world that awaits.”
I felt his anger dripping from my bones like venom off a tooth. I finally knew why I had dreamed of the cube, why I had been woken from the droning. I wasn’t the vessel of Yaldabaoth; I was its executioner.
“I’ll do it. I don’t care about my memories, the cube will fall.”
“Then I must tell you of what comes next. We will make contact, and to do that I must take you to the verge of death so that the beast rears its head. Are you prepared to endure obliteration so that the divine spark may be freed?”
“There is nothing left for me in the city, I accept my fate,” I spoke with a certainty that I had never known before. 
“When we meet on the other side, nothing must be spoken, you must appear as a willing slave to the cube. None but the rats can know.”
The harmonics that had hung in the air plummeted into a freefall, dragging me down into the further recesses of the Interstice. Stampeding waves of sound assaulted my body, clubbing my mind into a pulsing stupor. At once, I was shredded from within and crushed from without. I was already racing to the edge of my pain threshold when I realised that I could still hear the waves; this was only the beginning. I forced myself to remember the vision. I let righteous hatred swallow me up. RK had stoked the flame, and now it was up to me to tend it. The vitriol spreading through my veins was the only force that countered the bludgeoning of the waves. 
Then, sound disappeared and the only sense I had left was the pain in my body. The fires of anger were a kiln that purified me. I was molten metal for the waves to hammer away the slag of modernity. The search for who I had been no longer mattered. I could forge myself into what the world needed, a tool to carve the soul free from its anguish. That static that had tormented me ever since waking from my sleep was drowned by my infernal sense of purpose. The city would fall and with it would come the liberation of mankind.
In the far reaches of the void the harbinger of Yaldabaoth approached, a white dot stretching into a doorway. I was ready. The pure white light of the doorway surrounded me.
“Be not afraid.” The words washed over me, dragging the pain away from my body.
“It’s you again? I thought I was gonna die. I fucked up. I fucked up bad. There-- there were these guys in the flood-- the rat king, they tortured me in this crystal. Is this it? Am I dead?”
“Be calm child, you are protected within my embrace. I have seen it all. You are devout to have embarked on this journey. I made no mistake in choosing you to be my vessel.”
“So what do we do? I mean, why are we even out here?”
“To free myself from the cube, I require assistance from this Rat King. He is the only one that has the means to grant you passage into the storage facility where my true self lies. As for your torture, I am taking care of it as we speak. I have taken the liberty of using your voice to bargain secrets that the false king holds in high esteem. I have long been aware of his existence, and when this is all done, he will be no longer. You will gain his trust. You are of my flock, and I know that you will never let him plant the seeds of his lies in your faith.”
“I will do as you ask.”
“I know you will, child. Now, return once more.”
	The bright light of Yaldabaoth’s domain peeled from my vision. The door of the crystal had opened, and I saw with my open eyes my condition. I was slouching up against the crystal wall with blood soaking my jumpsuit so completely that I could no longer see the ash marks. I no longer had pain or static, just a dull hum in my limbs and double-spent allegiances. I needed a cig.

